docs/eureka/contract-addresses.mdx, before:

---
title: "Contract Addresses"
id: contract-addresses
description: "Key contract addresses for the IBC Eureka deployment."
---


## ICS26 Router

- **clientIdCustomizer**: `0x4b46ea82D80825CA5640301f47C035942e6D9A46`
- **implementation**: `0x0a8b3f2ceeda13a9fb3dab2446ce8ec85dd2479d`
- **portCustomizer**: `0x4b46ea82D80825CA5640301f47C035942e6D9A46`
- **proxy**: `0x3aF134307D5Ee90faa2ba9Cdba14ba66414CF1A7`
- **relayers**:
  - `0xC4C09A23dDBd1fF0f313885265113F83622284C2`
  - `0xACf94C35456413F9F1FCe1aE8A0412Dd6D6B40D7`
  - `0x4bc16fEC05B2D9Fa72AdE54BB25A464a20D0D49b`
  - `0xeB128b9893aDCf2F6C6305160e57b7Beab9A09AF`
- **timeLockAdmin**: `0xb3999B2D30dD8c9faEcE5A8a503fAe42b8b1b614`

## ICS20 Transfer

- **escrowImplementation**: `0xf24A818d2E276936a7ABDDfaAd9c369a5B9Dcde8`
- **ibcERC20Implementation**: `0x337842047368607f458e3D7bb47E676aec1509d9`
- **ics26Router**: `0x3aF134307D5Ee90faa2ba9Cdba14ba66414CF1A7`
- **implementation**: `0x4AC36b4e2dB6ecc221598dBffBB012Fbb8ac9d6B`
- **pausers**:
  - `0x9D91034CF296a02ED54C18A1a2AB9520e5fC135d`
  - `0xCb5d44d2324D36FfFef0e594d8893c4Fee908d4d`
  - `0x64ACC525DC35ebca8345fDF6e2A70D012a17740A`
  - `0x00A8b36491dCc59f1998fa368842709aBdD24eD7`
  - `0x2FeD70e1Ea7bE86a5C99F3456C0fb70db2801AD2`
- **permit2**: `0x000000000022D473030F116dDEE9F6B43aC78BA3`
- **proxy**: `0xa348CfE719B63151F228e3C30EB424BA5a983012`
- **tokenOperator**: `0x4b46ea82D80825CA5640301f47C035942e6D9A46`
- **unpausers**:
  - `0x7B96CD54aA750EF83ca90eA487e0bA321707559a`

## Light Clients

### Client: cosmoshub-0

- **clientId**: `cosmoshub-0`
- **Contract Address**: `0xeA6F72650da80093A1012606Cc7328f5474ed378`

### Client: ledger-mainnet-1

- **clientId**: `ledger-mainnet-1`
- **Contract Address**: `0xc9e814bB90B7e43c138F86D5C93Df21817D976Ca`

### Client: client-4

- **clientId**: `client-4`
- **Contract Address**: `0x1Ba9912Ab92d8c58e1DEF3f783e4EbE0A516d76E`

Commit message:

Add note about Ethereum mainnet contract addresses  add link to repo

docs/eureka/contract-addresses.mdx, after:

---
title: "Contract Addresses"
id: contract-addresses
description: "Key contract addresses for the IBC Eureka deployment."
---

:::note
The contract addresses listed on this page are for the Ethereum mainnet deployment. Please note that these addresses may change. The most up-to-date deployment information can always be found in the [cosmos/eureka-ops GitHub repository](https://github.com/cosmos/eureka-ops/blob/main/deployments/mainnet/1.json)
:::

## ICS26 Router

- **clientIdCustomizer**: `0x4b46ea82D80825CA5640301f47C035942e6D9A46`
- **implementation**: `0x0a8b3f2ceeda13a9fb3dab2446ce8ec85dd2479d`
- **portCustomizer**: `0x4b46ea82D80825CA5640301f47C035942e6D9A46`
- **proxy**: `0x3aF134307D5Ee90faa2ba9Cdba14ba66414CF1A7`
- **relayers**:
  - `0xC4C09A23dDBd1fF0f313885265113F83622284C2`
  - `0xACf94C35456413F9F1FCe1aE8A0412Dd6D6B40D7`
  - `0x4bc16fEC05B2D9Fa72AdE54BB25A464a20D0D49b`
  - `0xeB128b9893aDCf2F6C6305160e57b7Beab9A09AF`
- **timeLockAdmin**: `0xb3999B2D30dD8c9faEcE5A8a503fAe42b8b1b614`

## ICS20 Transfer

- **escrowImplementation**: `0xf24A818d2E276936a7ABDDfaAd9c369a5B9Dcde8`
- **ibcERC20Implementation**: `0x337842047368607f458e3D7bb47E676aec1509d9`
- **ics26Router**: `0x3aF134307D5Ee90faa2ba9Cdba14ba66414CF1A7`
- **implementation**: `0x4AC36b4e2dB6ecc221598dBffBB012Fbb8ac9d6B`
- **pausers**:
  - `0x9D91034CF296a02ED54C18A1a2AB9520e5fC135d`
  - `0xCb5d44d2324D36FfFef0e594d8893c4Fee908d4d`
  - `0x64ACC525DC35ebca8345fDF6e2A70D012a17740A`
  - `0x00A8b36491dCc59f1998fa368842709aBdD24eD7`
  - `0x2FeD70e1Ea7bE86a5C99F3456C0fb70db2801AD2`
- **permit2**: `0x000000000022D473030F116dDEE9F6B43aC78BA3`
- **proxy**: `0xa348CfE719B63151F228e3C30EB424BA5a983012`
- **tokenOperator**: `0x4b46ea82D80825CA5640301f47C035942e6D9A46`
- **unpausers**:
  - `0x7B96CD54aA750EF83ca90eA487e0bA321707559a`

## Light Clients

### Client: cosmoshub-0

- **clientId**: `cosmoshub-0`
- **Contract Address**: `0xeA6F72650da80093A1012606Cc7328f5474ed378`

### Client: ledger-mainnet-1

- **clientId**: `ledger-mainnet-1`
- **Contract Address**: `0xc9e814bB90B7e43c138F86D5C93Df21817D976Ca`

### Client: client-4

- **clientId**: `client-4`
- **Contract Address**: `0x1Ba9912Ab92d8c58e1DEF3f783e4EbE0A516d76E`
