docs/eureka/custom-erc20-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: "Custom ERC20 Integration"
id: custom-erc20-integration
description: "A guide for asset issuers to deploy and register custom ERC20 contracts for their tokens on Ethereum"
---

# Custom ERC20 Integration

## Overview

In the initial release of [`solidity-ibc-eureka`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka), receiving a non-native token (e.g., ATOM from Cosmos Hub) deploys a default [`IBCERC20`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/contracts/utils/IBCERC20.sol) contract to represent that token on Ethereum.

Many teams bridging through the Cosmos Hub, however, want ownership and control over their ERC20 contracts on Ethereum. Since `IBCERC20` is managed by the `ICS20Transfer` contract and isn't customizable, direct ownership isn't possible.

To address this, we allow teams to deploy custom ERC20 contracts—provided they implement a simple interface that lets the `ICS20Transfer` contract mint and burn tokens.

## Benefits

The benefits of this approach include:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Custom Metadata" icon="tag">
    Customize metadata and token naming on deployment. Tokens will not initially be named `ibc/transfer/channel-0...` and can be represented with the name they are recognized by.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Contract Verification" icon="shield-check">
    Easier contract verification on Etherscan. Each project can easily verify the ERC20 contract deployed for their project to increase trust by associating the token with the official project domain.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Improved CEX Listing" icon="dollar-sign">
    This is likely to result in easier CEX listing and generally increased trust in the bridged asset.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Full Control" icon="gear">
    Complete ownership and control over the ERC20 contract representing your token on Ethereum.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Requirements

To replace the default `IBCERC20`, your custom ERC20 contract must implement the [`IMintableAndBurnable`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/contracts/interfaces/IMintableAndBurnable.sol) interface:

```solidity
interface IMintableAndBurnable {
    /// @notice Mint new tokens to the Escrow contract
    /// @dev This function can only be called by an authorized contract (e.g., ICS20)
    /// @dev This function needs to allow minting tokens to the Escrow contract
    /// @param mintAddress Address to mint tokens to
    /// @param amount Amount of tokens to mint
    function mint(address mintAddress, uint256 amount) external;

    /// @notice Burn tokens from the Escrow contract
    /// @dev This function can only be called by an authorized contract (e.g., ICS20)
    /// @dev This function needs to allow burning of tokens from the Escrow contract
    /// @param mintAddress Address to burn tokens from
    /// @param amount Amount of tokens to burn
    function burn(address mintAddress, uint256 amount) external;
}
```

For an example implementation of this interface, you can refer to the [`RefImplIBCERC20.sol`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/test/solidity-ibc/utils/RefImplIBCERC20.sol) contract in the `solidity-ibc-eureka` repository.

### Access Control Requirements

These functions must be callable by the proxy of the `ICS20Transfer` contract:

- **Mainnet**: `0xa348CfE719B63151F228e3C30EB424BA5a983012`

Token teams may implement access controls or rate limits as needed, as long as the `ICS20Transfer` proxy can still perform mint and burn operations.

<Note>
  The interface remains open to iteration based on community feedback.
</Note>

## Registering a Custom ERC20

The `ICS20Transfer` contract includes a permissioned method for registering a custom ERC20 via the [`setCustomERC20`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/bce3a4a0de85697607815e2f7c9d9e2a8a508cd3/contracts/ICS20Transfer.sol#L264C14-L264C28) function.

### Prerequisites

Only addresses assigned the `ERC20_CUSTOMIZER_ROLE` can call this function. This role is established by the protocol's security council and administered by the Eureka Ops multi-sig. To request registration of your custom ERC20 contract, [join our Discord](https://skip.build/discord) and open a support ticket.

### Critical Timing Requirement

<Warning>
  `setCustomERC20` must be called **before** the first IBC transfer of the token to the chain where the custom ERC20 is deployed. Once the initial transfer is made, the ERC20 mapping becomes immutable.
</Warning>

## Getting Started

If you're an asset issuer looking to deploy a custom ERC20 contract for your token on Ethereum:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Implement the Interface">
    Deploy your custom ERC20 contract that implements the `IMintableAndBurnable` interface with proper access controls for the `ICS20Transfer` proxy. For an example, see the [reference implementation](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/test/solidity-ibc/utils/RefImplIBCERC20.sol) in the `solidity-ibc-eureka` repository.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Request Registration">
    [Join our Discord](https://skip.build/discord) and open a support ticket to request registration of your custom ERC20 contract.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Verify and Launch">
    Verify your contract on Etherscan for greater transparency. For assistance, see the [Etherscan Contract Verification page](https://etherscan.io/verifyContract). Once verified, start bridging your token with complete control over its ERC20 representation.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Support and Resources

Need help with your custom ERC20 integration? Our team is ready to assist:

- [Join our Discord](https://skip.build/discord) and open a support ticket

Additional resources:
- For technical specifications, visit the [solidity-ibc-eureka repository](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka)
- View the [reference implementation](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/test/solidity-ibc/utils/RefImplIBCERC20.sol) for a sample ERC20 contract
- Learn about [Etherscan contract verification](https://etherscan.io/verifyContract) to enhance trust in your token

Commit message:

Enhance Custom ERC20 Integration documentation
- Emphasized the importance of restricting access to mint and burn functions to the ICS20Transfer proxy to prevent unauthorized token manipulation.
- Added a new section on upgradability, clarifying the implications of deploying non-upgradable contracts.
- Specified requirements for token denomination on the Cosmos Hub prior to registration.

docs/eureka/custom-erc20-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: "Custom ERC20 Integration"
id: custom-erc20-integration
description: "A guide for asset issuers to deploy and register custom ERC20 contracts for their tokens on Ethereum"
---

# Custom ERC20 Integration

## Overview

In the initial release of [`solidity-ibc-eureka`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka), receiving a non-native token (e.g., ATOM from Cosmos Hub) deploys a default [`IBCERC20`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/contracts/utils/IBCERC20.sol) contract to represent that token on Ethereum.

Many teams bridging through the Cosmos Hub, however, want ownership and control over their ERC20 contracts on Ethereum. Since `IBCERC20` is managed by the `ICS20Transfer` contract and isn't customizable, direct ownership isn't possible.

To address this, we allow teams to deploy custom ERC20 contracts—provided they implement a simple interface that lets the `ICS20Transfer` contract mint and burn tokens.

## Benefits

The benefits of this approach include:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Custom Metadata" icon="tag">
    Customize metadata and token naming on deployment. Tokens will not initially be named `ibc/transfer/channel-0...` and can be represented with the name they are recognized by.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Contract Verification" icon="shield-check">
    Easier contract verification on Etherscan. Each project can easily verify the ERC20 contract deployed for their project to increase trust by associating the token with the official project domain.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Improved CEX Listing" icon="dollar-sign">
    This is likely to result in easier CEX listing and generally increased trust in the bridged asset.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Full Control" icon="gear">
    Complete ownership and control over the ERC20 contract representing your token on Ethereum.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Requirements

To replace the default `IBCERC20`, your custom ERC20 contract must implement the [`IMintableAndBurnable`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/contracts/interfaces/IMintableAndBurnable.sol) interface:

```solidity
interface IMintableAndBurnable {
    /// @notice Mint new tokens to the Escrow contract
    /// @dev This function can only be called by an authorized contract (e.g., ICS20)
    /// @dev This function needs to allow minting tokens to the Escrow contract
    /// @param mintAddress Address to mint tokens to
    /// @param amount Amount of tokens to mint
    function mint(address mintAddress, uint256 amount) external;

    /// @notice Burn tokens from the Escrow contract
    /// @dev This function can only be called by an authorized contract (e.g., ICS20)
    /// @dev This function needs to allow burning of tokens from the Escrow contract
    /// @param mintAddress Address to burn tokens from
    /// @param amount Amount of tokens to burn
    function burn(address mintAddress, uint256 amount) external;
}
```

For an example implementation of this interface, you can refer to the [`RefImplIBCERC20.sol`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/test/solidity-ibc/utils/RefImplIBCERC20.sol) contract in the `solidity-ibc-eureka` repository.

### Access Control Requirements

These functions must be callable by the proxy of the `ICS20Transfer` contract:

- **Mainnet**: `0xa348CfE719B63151F228e3C30EB424BA5a983012`

It is crucial that access to these `mint` and `burn` functions is strictly limited to only the `ICS20Transfer` proxy. Allowing any other address or contract to call these functions could lead to unauthorized token manipulation and compromise the integrity of your token. Token teams may implement additional access controls or rate limits as needed, provided the `ICS20Transfer` proxy retains its ability to perform mint and burn operations.

<Note>
  The interface remains open to iteration based on community feedback.
</Note>

### Upgradability

You are not required to deploy an upgradable contract for your custom ERC20. We commit to maintaining the stability of the `IMintableAndBurnable` interface. However, please note that if we extend the interface with new functionality in the future, a non-upgradable contract would not be able to utilize these new features.

## Registering a Custom ERC20

The `ICS20Transfer` contract includes a permissioned method for registering a custom ERC20 via the [`setCustomERC20`](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/bce3a4a0de85697607815e2f7c9d9e2a8a508cd3/contracts/ICS20Transfer.sol#L264C14-L264C28) function.

### Prerequisites

Only addresses assigned the `ERC20_CUSTOMIZER_ROLE` can call this function. This role is established by the protocol's security council and administered by the Eureka Ops multi-sig. To request registration of your custom ERC20 contract, [join our Discord](https://skip.build/discord) and open a support ticket.

Additionally, the token's denomination on the Cosmos Hub must be established. The token must either be live on the Hub, or its original denomination and complete IBC path must be known if it originates elsewhere. We require the token to be active on the Cosmos Hub before registration can proceed.

### Critical Timing Requirement

<Warning>
  `setCustomERC20` must be called **before** the first IBC transfer of the token to the chain where the custom ERC20 is deployed. Once the initial transfer is made, the ERC20 mapping becomes immutable.
</Warning>

## Getting Started

If you're an asset issuer looking to deploy a custom ERC20 contract for your token on Ethereum:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Implement the Interface">
    Deploy your custom ERC20 contract that implements the `IMintableAndBurnable` interface with proper access controls for the `ICS20Transfer` proxy. For an example, see the [reference implementation](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/test/solidity-ibc/utils/RefImplIBCERC20.sol) in the `solidity-ibc-eureka` repository.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Request Registration">
    [Join our Discord](https://skip.build/discord) and open a support ticket to request registration of your custom ERC20 contract.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Verify and Launch">
    Verify your contract on Etherscan for greater transparency. For assistance, see the [Etherscan Contract Verification page](https://etherscan.io/verifyContract). Once verified, start bridging your token with complete control over its ERC20 representation.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Support and Resources

Need help with your custom ERC20 integration? Our team is ready to assist:

- [Join our Discord](https://skip.build/discord) and open a support ticket

Additional resources:
- For technical specifications, visit the [solidity-ibc-eureka repository](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka)
- View the [reference implementation](https://github.com/cosmos/solidity-ibc-eureka/blob/main/test/solidity-ibc/utils/RefImplIBCERC20.sol) for a sample ERC20 contract
- Learn about [Etherscan contract verification](https://etherscan.io/verifyContract) to enhance trust in your token
