docs/support-requirements/asset-registry-overrides.mdx, before:

---
title: "Skip Go Asset Registry & Overrides"
description: "Learn how to submit custom token logos and metadata to the Skip Go Asset Registry to ensure your assets display correctly across all Skip Go integrations."
---

## Background

The Skip Go API aggregates asset metadata from multiple public registries, including:
- [Cosmos Chain Registry](https://github.com/cosmos/chain-registry)
- [Osmosis Assetlists](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/assetlists)
- [Keplr Chain Registry](https://github.com/chainapsis/keplr-chain-registry)
- [Astroport Token Lists](https://github.com/astroport-fi/astroport-token-lists)

While this multi-registry approach ensures broad coverage, it can sometimes lead to inconsistencies such as:
- **Mismatched logos** between token and chain representations
- **Missing or outdated logos** for newer tokens
- **Conflicting metadata** when different registries provide different information for the same asset
- **Low-quality or incorrect images** from less-maintained registries

## The Skip Go Asset Registry

To resolve these issues and give teams control over how their assets appear across all Skip Go-powered applications (wallets, DEXs, bridges), we maintain the **[Skip Go Asset Registry](https://github.com/skip-mev/skip-go-registry)**.

This registry allows you to:
- Override asset metadata from external registries
- Ensure consistent branding across all Skip Go integrations
- Provide high-quality logos for both tokens and chains
- Control how your assets are displayed to users
- Add symbol overrides for chain-specific token representations

## When to Submit an Override

You should submit an override to the Skip Go Asset Registry when:

1. **Logo Mismatch**: Your token logo differs from your chain logo when they should be the same
2. **Missing Logos**: Your token or chain has no logo in Skip Go integrations
3. **Incorrect Metadata**: Name, symbol, or other metadata is incorrect or outdated
4. **Branding Update**: You've updated your brand identity and need to update your assets
5. **Quality Issues**: Existing logos are low quality, incorrectly formatted, or don't meet design standards
6. **Symbol Conflicts**: Need to differentiate between token versions on different chains (e.g., `USDC.e`, `aUSD.planq`)

## Repository Structure

The Skip Go Registry follows this directory structure:

```
chains/
├── [chain_id]/           # EVM chains use numeric chain IDs (e.g., 1 for Ethereum)
│   ├── chain.json       # Chain configuration
│   ├── assetlist.json   # Asset definitions
│   └── images/          # Asset logos (optional)
└── [chain_name]/        # Cosmos chains use chain names (e.g., osmosis-1)
    ├── chain.json       # Chain configuration
    ├── assetlist.json   # Asset definitions
    └── images/          # Asset logos (optional)
```

## How to Submit Custom Assets

### Step 1: Fork and Clone the Repository

1. Navigate to the [Skip Go Registry](https://github.com/skip-mev/skip-go-registry)
2. Click "Fork" to create your own copy
3. Clone your forked repository locally
4. Create a new branch using the format: `NC/[descriptive-name-of-fix]`
   ```bash
   git checkout -b NC/add-my-token-logo
   ```

### Step 2: Add or Update Assets

#### For EVM Chain Assets

**Native Assets (ETH, MATIC, etc.):**
```json
{
    "asset_type": "evm_native",
    "evm_native_asset_name": "[chain]-native",
    "symbol": "ETH",
    "name": "Ethereum",
    "decimals": 18,
    "coingecko_id": "ethereum",
    "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/..."
}
```

**ERC-20 Tokens:**

When adding ERC-20 tokens, include only required fields unless specifically instructed:

```json
{
    "asset_type": "erc20",
    "erc20_contract_address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48"
}
```

Additional fields to add when overriding metadata:
```json
{
    "asset_type": "erc20",
    "erc20_contract_address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48",
    "name": "USD Coin",
    "symbol": "USDC",
    "decimals": 6,
    "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/...",
    "coingecko_id": "usd-coin"
}
```

#### For Cosmos Chain Assets

```json
{
    "asset_type": "cosmos",
    "name": "Osmosis",
    "symbol": "OSMO",
    "denom": "uosmo",
    "decimals": 6,
    "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/...",
    "coingecko_id": "osmosis"
}
```

#### Symbol Overrides

When assets need chain-specific symbols (e.g., to differentiate bridged versions), use `recommended_symbol`:

```json
{
    "asset_type": "erc20",
    "name": "aUSD",
    "symbol": "aUSD",
    "decimals": 18,
    "erc20_contract_address": "0xA2871B267a7d888F830251F6B4D9d3DFf184995a",
    "recommended_symbol": "aUSD.planq"
}
```

Common symbol override patterns:
- `USDT.kava` - Chain suffix with dot notation
- `USDC.e` - Bridged token designation
- `TIA.n` - Network-specific versions

### Step 3: Asset Requirements

**Logo Requirements:**
- **Format**: PNG or SVG (host on GitHub or a permanent CDN)
- **Size**: Minimum 256x256px for PNG, vector for SVG
- **Quality**: High resolution, clear, and professional
- **URL**: Use permanent URLs (GitHub raw content URLs recommended)

**Required Fields by Asset Type:**

**EVM Native:**
- `asset_type`, `evm_native_asset_name`, `symbol`, `name`, `decimals`
- Recommended: `logo_uri`, `coingecko_id`

**ERC-20 Tokens:**
- `asset_type`, `erc20_contract_address` (checksummed)
- Optional but recommended: `name`, `symbol`, `decimals`, `logo_uri`, `coingecko_id`

**Cosmos Assets:**
- `asset_type`, `name`, `symbol`, `denom`, `decimals`
- Recommended: `logo_uri`, `coingecko_id`

**Common Decimal Values:**
- Most EVM native tokens: 18
- USDC, USDT: 6 (on most chains)
- Cosmos native tokens: 6 (commonly)
- WBTC: 8

Always verify decimals with the official token contract or chain documentation.

### Step 4: Validate Your Changes

Run the validation scripts before submitting:

```bash
cd scripts/config-validator
npm install
npm run validate
```

This checks for:
- Schema compliance
- Required fields
- Valid contract addresses
- Duplicate assets

### Step 5: Submit a Pull Request

1. Commit your changes:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add [Token/Chain Name] assets and metadata"
   git push origin NC/add-my-token-logo
   ```

2. Open a Pull Request to the main Skip Go Registry repository

3. In your PR description, include:
   - **What you're adding/updating**: Token name, chain name, or symbol override
   - **Why the change is needed**: E.g., "Logo mismatch" or "Missing metadata"
   - **Verification**: Link to official project documentation confirming accuracy

### Step 6: PR Review and Merge

The Skip Protocol team reviews submissions within **3-5 business days**, checking for:
- Asset quality and format compliance
- Metadata accuracy
- Authenticity verification
- Consistency with project branding

Once merged, updates appear in Skip Go integrations within **24 hours**.

## Advanced Features

### Axelar Bridge Support

For assets using Axelar bridge, add these fields to native assets:

```json
{
    "axelar_symbol": "WETH",
    "axelar_name": "weth-wei",
    "axelar_denom": "weth-wei"
}
```

### GoFast Transfers

For assets supporting GoFast transfers:

```json
{
    "go_fast_enabled": true
}
```

## Verifying Your Assets

After your PR is merged, verify using the Skip Go API:

**Endpoint:** `https://api.skip.build/v2/fungible/assets`

**Query Parameters:**
- `chain_ids`: Limit response to specific chains
- `include_evm_assets=true`: Required to see EVM tokens
- `include_cw20_assets=true`: Include CW20 tokens
- `native_only`: Restrict to native assets only

**Example Response:**
```json
{
  "chain_to_assets_map": {
    "42161": {
      "assets": [{
        "denom": "0x816E21c33fa5F8440EBcDF6e01D39314541BEA72",
        "chain_id": "42161",
        "symbol": "agETH",
        "name": "Kelp Gain",
        "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/...",
        "decimals": 18,
        "coingecko_id": "kelp-gain",
        "recommended_symbol": "agETH"
      }]
    }
  }
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Make minimal changes** - Only add fields specifically needed for your override
2. **Always include decimals** - Critical for proper token handling
3. **Use checksummed addresses** for EVM contract addresses
4. **Verify coingecko_id** matches exactly with CoinGecko's API
5. **Use existing patterns** - Check similar assets for consistency
6. **Include logo_uri** when possible for better UX
7. **Preserve existing entries** - Don't modify unrelated assets

## Common Issues & Solutions

### My token shows a different logo than my chain

**Solution**: Add both token and chain entries to the registry with matching logos.

### My logo isn't updating after PR merge

**Solution**: Wait up to 24 hours for cache invalidation. Check using the API endpoint above.

### I need chain-specific symbols

**Solution**: Use the `recommended_symbol` field (e.g., `"USDC.e"` for bridged USDC).

### EVM assets not appearing in API

**Solution**: Query with `include_evm_assets=true` parameter.

## Support

If you encounter issues:

- **Discord**: [CosmosLabs Discord](https://discord.com/invite/interchain)
- **GitHub Issues**: [Skip Go Registry Issues](https://github.com/skip-mev/skip-go-registry/issues)

## Related Documentation

- [Token & Route Support Requirements](./token-support-requirements): How to add new tokens to Skip Go
- [Chain Support Requirements](./chain-support-requirements): How to request chain integration
- [Skip Go API Reference](/api-reference/prod/fungible/get-v2fungibleassets): View asset metadata via API

Commit message:

Update asset registry override documentation
Refine documentation for clarity and accuracy:
- Simplify descriptions and remove redundant information
- Update logo size requirements and formatting guidelines
- Clarify when to include optional metadata fields
- Streamline PR submission process and branch naming
- Remove best practices section to reduce redundancy
- Improve examples for different asset types

docs/support-requirements/asset-registry-overrides.mdx, after:

---
title: "Skip Go Asset Registry & Overrides"
description: "Learn how to submit custom token logos and metadata to the Skip Go Asset Registry to ensure your assets display correctly across Skip Go."
---

## Background

The Skip Go API aggregates asset metadata from multiple public registries, including:
- [Cosmos Chain Registry](https://github.com/cosmos/chain-registry)
- [Osmosis Assetlists](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/assetlists)
- [Keplr Chain Registry](https://github.com/chainapsis/keplr-chain-registry)
- [Astroport Token Lists](https://github.com/astroport-fi/astroport-token-lists)

While this multi-registry approach ensures broad coverage, it can sometimes lead to inconsistencies such as:
- **Mismatched logos** between token and chain representations
- **Missing or outdated logos** for newer tokens
- **Conflicting metadata** when different registries provide different information for the same asset
- **Low-quality or incorrect images** from less-maintained registries

## The Skip Go Asset Registry

To resolve these issues and give teams control over how their assets appear across all Skip Go, we can override these with the **[Skip Go Asset Registry](https://github.com/skip-mev/skip-go-registry)**.

This registry allows you to:
- Override asset metadata from external registries
- Ensure consistent branding across all Skip Go integrations
- Provide high-quality logos for both tokens and chains
- Control how your assets are displayed to users
- Fix decimals issues with you assets

## When to Submit an Override

You should submit an override to the Skip Go Asset Registry when:

1. **Logo Mismatch**: Your token logo differs from your chain logo when they should be the same
2. **Missing Logos**: Your token or chain has no logo in Skip Go integrations
3. **Incorrect Metadata**: Name, symbol, denom or other metadata is incorrect or outdated
4. **Branding Update**: You've updated your brand identity and need to update your assets
5. **Quality Issues**: Existing logos are low quality, incorrectly formatted, or don't meet design standards
6. **Symbol Conflicts**: Need to differentiate between token versions on different chains (e.g., `USDC.e`, `aUSD.planq`)

## Repository Structure

The Skip Go Registry follows this directory structure:

```
chains/
├── [chain_id]/           # EVM chains use numeric chain IDs (e.g., 1 for Ethereum)
│   ├── chain.json       # Chain configuration
│   ├── assetlist.json   # Asset definitions
│   └── images/          # Asset logos (optional)
└── [chain_name]/        # Cosmos chains use chain names (e.g., osmosis-1)
    ├── chain.json       # Chain configuration
    ├── assetlist.json   # Asset definitions
    └── images/          # Asset logos (optional)
```

## How to Submit Custom Assets

### Step 1: Fork and Clone the Repository

1. Navigate to the [Skip Go Registry](https://github.com/skip-mev/skip-go-registry)
2. Click "Fork" to create your own copy
3. Clone your forked repository locally
4. Create a new branch: `[descriptive-name-of-fix]`
   ```bash
   git checkout -b add-my-token-logo
   ```

### Step 2: Add or Update Assets

#### For EVM Chain Assets

**Native Assets (ETH, MATIC, etc.):**
```json
{
    "asset_type": "evm_native",
    "evm_native_asset_name": "[chain]-native",
    "symbol": "ETH",
    "name": "Ethereum",
    "decimals": 18,
    "coingecko_id": "ethereum",
    "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/..."
}
```

**ERC-20 Tokens:**

For ERC-20 tokens, include only required fields unless other meta data is incorrect e.g demon:

```json
{
    "asset_type": "erc20",
    "erc20_contract_address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48"
}
```

Additional fields to add when overriding metadata:
```json
{
    "asset_type": "erc20",
    "erc20_contract_address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48",
    "name": "USD Coin",
    "symbol": "USDC",
    "decimals": 6,
    "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/...",
    "coingecko_id": "usd-coin"
}
```

#### For Cosmos Chain Assets

```json
{
    "asset_type": "cosmos",
    "name": "Osmosis",
    "denom": "uosmo",
    "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/...",
}
```

#### Symbol Overrides

When assets need chain-specific symbols (e.g., to differentiate bridged versions), use `recommended_symbol`:

```json
{
    "asset_type": "erc20",
    "name": "aUSD",
    "symbol": "aUSD",
    "decimals": 18,
    "erc20_contract_address": "0xA2871B267a7d888F830251F6B4D9d3DFf184995a",
    "recommended_symbol": "aUSD.planq"
}
```

Common symbol override patterns:
- `USDT.kava` - Chain suffix with dot notation
- `USDC.e` - Bridged token designation
- `TIA.n` - Network-specific versions

### Step 3: Asset Requirements

**Logo Requirements:**
- **Format**: PNG or SVG (host on GitHub or a permanent CDN)
- **Size**: Minimum 250x256px for PNG, vector for SVG
- **Quality**: High resolution, clear, and professional
- **URL**: Use permanent URLs (GitHub raw content URLs)

**Required Fields by Asset Type:**

**EVM Native:**
- `asset_type`, `evm_native_asset_name`, `symbol`, `name`, `decimals`
- Recommended: `logo_uri`, `coingecko_id`

**ERC-20 Tokens:**
- `asset_type`, `erc20_contract_address` (checksummed)
- Optional but recommended: `name`, `symbol`, `decimals`, `logo_uri`, `coingecko_id`

**Cosmos Assets:**
- `asset_type`, `name`, `symbol`, `denom`, `decimals`
- Recommended: `logo_uri`, `coingecko_id`

**Common Decimal Values:**
- Most EVM native tokens: 18
- USDC, USDT: 6 (on most chains)
- Cosmos native tokens: 6 (commonly)
- WBTC: 8

Always verify decimals with the official token contract or chain documentation.

### Step 4: Validate Your Changes

Run the validation scripts before submitting:

```bash
cd scripts/config-validator
npm install
npm run validate
```

This checks for:
- Schema compliance
- Required fields
- Valid contract addresses
- Duplicate assets

### Step 5: Submit a Pull Request

1. Commit your changes:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add [Token/Chain Name] assets and metadata"
   git push origin add-my-token-logo
   ```

2. Open a Pull Request to the main Skip Go Registry repository

3. In your PR description, include:
   - **What you're adding/updating**: Token name, chain name, or symbol override
   - **Why the change is needed**: E.g., "Logo mismatch" or "Missing metadata"
   - **Verification**: Link to official project documentation confirming accuracy

### Step 6: PR Review and Merge

The Skip Protocol team reviews submissions within **3-5 business days**, checking for:
- Asset quality and format compliance
- Metadata accuracy
- Authenticity verification
- Consistency with project branding

Once merged, updates appear in Skip Go integrations within **24 hours**.

## Advanced Features

### Axelar Bridge Support

For assets using Axelar bridge, add these fields to native assets:

```json
{
    "axelar_symbol": "WETH",
    "axelar_name": "weth-wei",
    "axelar_denom": "weth-wei"
}
```

### GoFast Transfers

For assets supporting GoFast transfers:

```json
{
    "go_fast_enabled": true
}
```

## Verifying Your Assets

After your PR is merged, verify using the Skip Go API:

**Endpoint:** `https://api.skip.build/v2/fungible/assets`

**Query Parameters:**
- `chain_ids`: Limit response to specific chains
- `include_evm_assets=true`: Required to see EVM tokens
- `include_cw20_assets=true`: Include CW20 tokens
- `native_only`: Restrict to native assets only

**Example Response:**
```json
{
  "chain_to_assets_map": {
    "42161": {
      "assets": [{
        "denom": "0x816E21c33fa5F8440EBcDF6e01D39314541BEA72",
        "chain_id": "42161",
        "symbol": "agETH",
        "name": "Kelp Gain",
        "logo_uri": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/...",
        "decimals": 18,
        "coingecko_id": "kelp-gain",
        "recommended_symbol": "agETH"
      }]
    }
  }
}
```

## Common Issues & Solutions

### My token shows a different logo than my chain

**Solution**: Add both token and chain entries to the registry with matching logos.

### My logo isn't updating after PR merge

**Solution**: Wait up to 24 hours for cache invalidation. Check using the API endpoint above.

### I need chain-specific symbols

**Solution**: Use the `recommended_symbol` field (e.g., `"USDC.e"` for bridged USDC).

### EVM assets not appearing in API

**Solution**: Query with `include_evm_assets=true` parameter.

## Support

If you encounter issues:

- **Discord**: [CosmosLabs Discord](https://discord.com/invite/interchain)
- **GitHub Issues**: [Skip Go Registry Issues](https://github.com/skip-mev/skip-go-registry/issues)

## Related Documentation

- [Token & Route Support Requirements](./token-support-requirements): How to add new tokens to Skip Go
- [Chain Support Requirements](./chain-support-requirements): How to request chain integration
- [Skip Go API Reference](/api-reference/prod/fungible/get-v2fungibleassets): View asset metadata via API
