docs/client/gas-on-receive.mdx, before:

---
title: "Gas on Receive with Custom Frontends"
description: "Implement Gas on Receive functionality in your custom frontend using the Skip Go Client Library"
---

This guide explains how to implement Gas on Receive functionality when building custom frontends with the Skip Go Client Library. Gas on Receive helps users automatically obtain native gas tokens on destination chains during cross-chain swaps.

## Overview

Gas on Receive prevents users from getting "stuck" with assets they can't use by automatically providing a small amount of native gas tokens on the destination chain. The client library provides two approaches:

1. **Automatic** - Use `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` to automatically split routes
2. **Manual** - Full control over gas balance detection and route creation

## Prerequisites

- Skip Go Client Library v1.5.0 or higher
- Understanding of the basic `route` and `executeRoute` functions
- Access to user wallet signers for multiple chains

### Supported Chains
- **Destination**: Cosmos chains and EVM L2s (Solana not supported)
- **Source**: Most chains except Ethereum mainnet and Sepolia testnet

## Quick Start: Using getRouteWithGasOnReceive

The simplest way to implement Gas on Receive is using the built-in `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` function:

```typescript
import { 
  route, 
  getRouteWithGasOnReceive, 
  executeMultipleRoutes,
  executeRoute,
  type RouteResponse,
  type UserAddress
} from "@skip-go/client";

async function swapWithGasOnReceive() {
  try {
    // Step 1: Get your initial route
    const originalRoute = await route({
    amountIn: "1000000", // 1 OSMO
    sourceAssetChainId: "osmosis-1",
    sourceAssetDenom: "uosmo",
    destAssetChainId: "42161", // Arbitrum
    destAssetDenom: "0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1", // WETH
    smartRelay: true
  });

  // Step 2: Automatically split into main and gas routes
  const { mainRoute, gasRoute } = await getRouteWithGasOnReceive({
    routeResponse: originalRoute,
    routeRequest: {
      amountIn: "1000000",
      sourceAssetChainId: "osmosis-1",
      sourceAssetDenom: "uosmo",
      destAssetChainId: "42161",
      destAssetDenom: "0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1",
      smartRelay: true
    }
  });

  // Step 3: Get user addresses for required chains
  const userAddresses = [
    { chainId: "osmosis-1", address: "osmo1..." },
    { chainId: "42161", address: "0x..." }
  ];

  // Step 4: Execute routes
  if (gasRoute) {
    // Execute both routes together
    await executeMultipleRoutes({
      route: { mainRoute, feeRoute: gasRoute },
      userAddresses: {
        mainRoute: userAddresses,
        feeRoute: userAddresses // Same addresses for both routes
      },
      slippageTolerancePercent: {
        mainRoute: "1",
        feeRoute: "10" // Higher tolerance for gas route
      },
      getCosmosSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourCosmosWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      },
      getEVMSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourEvmWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      },
      onRouteStatusUpdated: (status) => {
        console.log("Route status:", status);
        
        // Check if gas route failed
        const gasRouteFailed = status.relatedRoutes?.find(
          r => r.routeKey === "feeRoute" && r.status === "failed"
        );
        
        if (gasRouteFailed) {
          console.warn("Gas route failed, but main swap continues");
        }
      }
    });
  } else {
    // No gas route needed, execute original route
    await executeRoute({
      route: originalRoute,
      userAddresses,
      slippageTolerancePercent: "1",
      getCosmosSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourCosmosWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      },
      getEVMSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourEvmWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      }
    });
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Failed to execute swap:", error);
    // Handle error appropriately
  }
}
```

### How getRouteWithGasOnReceive Works

The function automatically:
1. Checks if the destination chain is supported (excludes Solana chains)
2. Checks source chain support (excludes Ethereum mainnet and Sepolia testnet)
3. Verifies the destination asset isn't already a fee asset
4. Calculates appropriate gas amounts ($0.10 for Cosmos, $2.00 for EVM L2s)
5. Creates a gas route to obtain native tokens
6. Adjusts the main route amount accordingly
7. Returns both routes, or the original route as mainRoute if gas route creation fails

**Note**: If gas route creation fails for any reason, the function returns the original route as `mainRoute` with `gasRoute` as undefined, allowing your swap to proceed without gas-on-receive.

## Manual Implementation Guide

For full control over the Gas on Receive logic:

### Step 1: Check Destination Gas Balance

Before initiating a swap, check if the user has sufficient gas on the destination chain:

```typescript
import { balances } from "@skip-go/client";

async function checkDestinationGasBalance(
  destinationChainId: string,
  userAddress: string,
  requiredGasAmount?: string
) {
  // Fetch user's balance on destination chain
  const userBalances = await balances({
    chains: {
      [destinationChainId]: { address: userAddress }
    }
  });

  const chainBalances = userBalances.chains?.[destinationChainId]?.denoms;
  
  // For EVM chains, check native token (address 0x0000...)
  const nativeTokenDenom = getNativeTokenDenom(destinationChainId);
  const nativeBalance = chainBalances?.[nativeTokenDenom];

  // Simple check: does user have any native token?
  if (!nativeBalance?.amount || nativeBalance.amount === "0") {
    return false;
  }

  // Optional: Check against a minimum threshold
  if (requiredGasAmount) {
    return Number(nativeBalance.amount) >= Number(requiredGasAmount);
  }

  return true;
}

function getNativeTokenDenom(chainId: string): string {
  // For EVM chains
  if (isEvmChain(chainId)) {
    return "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000";
  }
  
  // For Cosmos chains, you'll need to fetch the fee assets
  // This varies by chain (e.g., "uosmo" for Osmosis, "uatom" for Cosmos Hub)
  return getCosmosNativeDenom(chainId);
}
```

### Step 2: Calculate Gas Amount Needed

```typescript
const GAS_AMOUNTS_USD = {
  cosmos: 0.10,    // $0.10 for Cosmos chains
  evm_l2: 2.00,    // $2.00 for EVM L2 chains
  evm_mainnet: 0   // Disabled for Ethereum mainnet
};

async function calculateGasAmount(
  sourceAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string },
  destinationChainId: string,
  sourceAssetPriceUsd: number
): Promise<string> {
  const chainType = await getChainType(destinationChainId);
  
  // Determine USD amount based on chain type
  let usdAmount = 0;
  if (chainType === 'cosmos') {
    usdAmount = GAS_AMOUNTS_USD.cosmos;
  } else if (chainType === 'evm' && destinationChainId !== "1") {
    usdAmount = GAS_AMOUNTS_USD.evm_l2;
  }
  
  if (usdAmount === 0) {
    throw new Error("Gas on Receive not supported for this chain");
  }
  
  // Convert USD amount to source asset amount
  const sourceAmount = usdAmount / sourceAssetPriceUsd;
  
  // Convert to crypto amount (considering decimals)
  const sourceAssetDecimals = await getAssetDecimals(sourceAsset);
  return convertToCryptoAmount(sourceAmount, sourceAssetDecimals);
}
```

### Step 3: Create Routes Manually

```typescript
import { route } from "@skip-go/client";

async function createRoutesManually(
  amountIn: string,
  sourceAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string },
  destAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string },
  gasAmount: string,
  enableGasOnReceive: boolean
) {
  // Calculate adjusted amounts
  const gasRouteAmount = enableGasOnReceive ? gasAmount : "0";
  const mainRouteAmount = (Number(amountIn) - Number(gasRouteAmount)).toString();
  
  // Create main route with reduced amount
  const mainRoute = await route({
    amountIn: mainRouteAmount,
    sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
    sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
    destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
    destAssetDenom: destAsset.denom,
    smartRelay: true
  });
  
  // Create gas route only if enabled
  let gasRoute = null;
  if (enableGasOnReceive) {
    const nativeTokenDenom = getNativeTokenDenom(destAsset.chainId);
    
    gasRoute = await route({
      amountIn: gasRouteAmount,
      sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
      sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
      destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
      destAssetDenom: nativeTokenDenom,
      smartRelay: true
    });
  }
  
  return { mainRoute, gasRoute };
}
```

### Step 4: Execute Routes

```typescript
import { executeMultipleRoutes, type RouteResponse, type UserAddress } from "@skip-go/client";

async function executeSwapWithGasOnReceive(
  mainRoute: RouteResponse,
  gasRoute: RouteResponse | null,
  userAddresses: UserAddress[],
  signers: {
    getCosmosSigningClient: (chainId: string) => Promise<any>;
    getEVMSigningClient: (chainId: string) => Promise<any>;
  }
) {
  // Build routes object with consistent naming
  const routes = gasRoute 
    ? { mainRoute, feeRoute: gasRoute }
    : { mainRoute };
  
  // Build user addresses object
  const addresses = gasRoute
    ? { mainRoute: userAddresses, feeRoute: userAddresses }
    : { mainRoute: userAddresses };
  
  // Build slippage settings
  const slippage = gasRoute
    ? { mainRoute: "1", feeRoute: "10" } // Higher tolerance for gas route
    : { mainRoute: "1" };
  
  // Execute both routes
  await executeMultipleRoutes({
    route: routes,
    userAddresses: addresses,
    slippageTolerancePercent: slippage,
    getCosmosSigningClient: signers.getCosmosSigningClient,
    getEVMSigningClient: signers.getEVMSigningClient,
    onRouteStatusUpdated: (status) => {
      // Handle route status updates
      console.log("Route status:", status);
      
      // Check if gas route failed
      const gasRouteFailed = status.relatedRoutes?.find(
        r => r.routeKey === "feeRoute" && r.status === "failed"
      );
      
      if (gasRouteFailed) {
        console.warn("Gas route failed, but main swap continues");
      }
    }
  });
}
```

## Complete Implementation Example

Here's a full example combining all the concepts:

```typescript
import { 
  route, 
  executeMultipleRoutes, 
  balances,
  assets,
  getRouteWithGasOnReceive
} from "@skip-go/client";

class GasOnReceiveManager {
  private readonly GAS_AMOUNTS_USD = {
    cosmos: 0.10,
    evm_l2: 2.00
  };

  async shouldEnableGasOnReceive(
    destinationChainId: string,
    destinationAddress: string,
    destinationAssetDenom: string
  ): Promise<boolean> {
    // Check if chain is supported
    if (!this.isChainSupported(destinationChainId)) {
      return false;
    }
    
    // Don't enable if destination asset is already a gas token
    if (await this.isGasToken(destinationChainId, destinationAssetDenom)) {
      return false;
    }
    
    // Check user's gas balance
    const hasGas = await this.checkGasBalance(destinationChainId, destinationAddress);
    return !hasGas;
  }
  
  private isChainSupported(chainId: string): boolean {
    // Solana chains not supported for destination
    const unsupportedDestChains = ["solana", "solana-devnet"];
    // Ethereum mainnet and Sepolia not supported as source
    const unsupportedSourceChains = ["1", "11155111"];
    // For this example, checking destination support
    return !unsupportedDestChains.includes(chainId);
  }
  
  private async isGasToken(chainId: string, denom: string): boolean {
    const chainAssets = await assets({ chainId });
    const gasTokens = chainAssets.chain?.feeAssets || [];
    return gasTokens.some(token => token.denom === denom);
  }
  
  private async checkGasBalance(
    chainId: string, 
    address: string
  ): Promise<boolean> {
    const balanceResponse = await balances({
      chains: { [chainId]: { address } }
    });
    
    const nativeDenom = await this.getNativeDenom(chainId);
    const balance = balanceResponse?.chains?.[chainId]?.denoms?.[nativeDenom];
    
    // Check if user has any balance
    return balance?.amount && balance.amount !== "0";
  }
  
  async executeSwapWithGasOnReceive(
    params: {
      amountIn: string;
      sourceAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string };
      destAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string };
      userAddresses: Array<{ chainId: string; address: string }>;
      enableGasOnReceive: boolean;
      signers: any;
    }
  ) {
    const { 
      amountIn, 
      sourceAsset, 
      destAsset, 
      userAddresses, 
      enableGasOnReceive,
      signers 
    } = params;
    
    // Get initial route
    const originalRoute = await route({
      amountIn,
      sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
      sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
      destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
      destAssetDenom: destAsset.denom
    });
    
    if (enableGasOnReceive) {
      // Use automatic splitting
      const { mainRoute, gasRoute } = await getRouteWithGasOnReceive({
        routeResponse: originalRoute,
        routeRequest: {
          amountIn,
          sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
          sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
          destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
          destAssetDenom: destAsset.denom
        }
      });
      
      if (gasRoute) {
        // Execute both routes
        await executeMultipleRoutes({
          route: { mainRoute, feeRoute: gasRoute },
          userAddresses: { 
            mainRoute: userAddresses,
            feeRoute: userAddresses 
          },
          slippageTolerancePercent: {
            mainRoute: "1",
            feeRoute: "10"  // Higher tolerance for gas route
          },
          ...signers,
          onRouteStatusUpdated: this.handleRouteStatus
        });
      } else {
        // Execute just the main route
        await executeRoute({
          route: mainRoute,
          userAddresses,
          slippageTolerancePercent: "1",
          ...signers
        });
      }
    } else {
      // Execute original route without gas
      await executeRoute({
        route: originalRoute,
        userAddresses,
        slippageTolerancePercent: "1",
        ...signers
      });
    }
  }
  
  private handleRouteStatus(status: RouteStatus) {
    if (status.status === "completed") {
      console.log("Swap completed successfully");
    }
    
    // Check gas route status
    const gasRoute = status.relatedRoutes?.find(r => r.routeKey === "feeRoute");
    if (gasRoute?.status === "failed") {
      console.warn("Gas provision failed, but main swap continues");
    } else if (gasRoute?.status === "completed") {
      console.log("Gas tokens received successfully");
    }
  }
}
```

## UI Considerations

When implementing Gas on Receive in your UI:

### Display Gas Information

```typescript
function GasOnReceiveToggle({ 
  enabled, 
  gasAmount, 
  gasAssetSymbol,
  onToggle 
}: GasOnReceiveProps) {
  return (
    <div className="gas-on-receive">
      <div className="gas-info">
        <GasIcon />
        <span>Enable gas top up - You'll get {gasAmount} in {gasAssetSymbol}</span>
        <Tooltip content="Receive native tokens for gas fees on destination chain" />
      </div>
      <Switch checked={enabled} onChange={onToggle} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Show Status During Execution

```typescript
function GasStatus({ status, amount, symbol }: GasStatusProps) {
  switch (status) {
    case 'pending':
      return <span>Receiving {amount} in {symbol}...</span>;
    case 'completed':
      return <span>✓ Received {amount} in {symbol} as gas top-up</span>;
    case 'failed':
      return <span>⚠ Failed to receive gas tokens</span>;
    default:
      return null;
  }
}
```

## Error Handling

Handle various failure scenarios gracefully:

```typescript
async function handleGasRouteErrors(error: Error, mainRouteStatus: string) {
  // Gas route failures don't affect main swap
  if (mainRouteStatus === 'completed') {
    console.log("Main swap succeeded despite gas route failure");
    // Show warning to user about missing gas
    showWarning("Swap completed but gas tokens were not received");
  }
  
  // Log for debugging
  console.error("Gas route error:", error);
  
  // Track in analytics
  trackEvent("gas_route_failed", {
    error: error.message,
    mainRouteStatus
  });
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use getRouteWithGasOnReceive**: The automatic function handles edge cases and optimizations
2. **Auto-detection**: Check gas balances and suggest Gas on Receive when needed
3. **User Control**: Always allow users to toggle the feature on/off
4. **Clear Communication**: Show exact amounts and costs transparently
5. **Graceful Degradation**: Main swap should continue even if gas route fails
6. **Higher Slippage**: Use 10% slippage for gas routes (vs 1% for main routes)
7. **Chain Support**: Disable for Ethereum mainnet and Solana
8. **Amount Limits**: Use recommended amounts ($0.10 for Cosmos, $2.00 for EVM L2s)

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom Gas Amounts

```typescript
// Override default gas amounts
const customGasAmounts = {
  "osmosis-1": "100000", // 0.1 OSMO
  "42161": "0.001",      // 0.001 ETH on Arbitrum
  "137": "2"             // 2 MATIC on Polygon
};

async function getCustomGasAmount(chainId: string): Promise<string> {
  return customGasAmounts[chainId] || getDefaultGasAmount(chainId);
}
```

### Dynamic Pricing

```typescript
// Adjust gas amount based on current gas prices
async function calculateDynamicGasAmount(chainId: string) {
  const gasPrice = await getGasPrice(chainId);
  const estimatedTxCount = 5; // Assume user needs gas for 5 transactions
  const gasPerTx = 21000; // Basic transfer gas limit
  
  const totalGasNeeded = gasPrice * gasPerTx * estimatedTxCount;
  return totalGasNeeded.toString();
}
```

## Comparison with Widget Implementation

| Feature | Widget (Automatic) | Client Library (Manual) |
|---------|-------------------|------------------------|
| Gas balance detection | Automatic | Manual or use `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` |
| Route creation | Automatic | Use `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` or manual |
| Amount calculation | Built-in defaults | Built-in with `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` |
| UI components | Provided | Build your own |
| Error handling | Automatic | Manual implementation |
| Status tracking | Built-in | Via callbacks |

## Summary

The Skip Go Client Library provides flexible options for implementing Gas on Receive:

1. **Quick implementation** with `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` for automatic route splitting
2. **Full control** with manual balance checking and route creation
3. **Status tracking** via callbacks in `executeMultipleRoutes`
4. **Graceful error handling** where gas route failures don't affect main swaps

Choose the approach that best fits your application's needs. For most use cases, `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` provides the ideal balance of simplicity and functionality.

Commit message:

Fix formatting and clarify documentation structure
- Fix gas amount formatting to be more readable
- Remove confusing automatic/manual terminology
- Clarify that getRouteWithGasOnReceive is the primary approach
- Rename 'Manual' to 'Custom' to better reflect its purpose

docs/client/gas-on-receive.mdx, after:

---
title: "Gas on Receive with Custom Frontends"
description: "Implement Gas on Receive functionality in your custom frontend using the Skip Go Client Library"
---

This guide explains how to implement Gas on Receive functionality when building custom frontends with the Skip Go Client Library. Gas on Receive helps users automatically obtain native gas tokens on destination chains during cross-chain swaps.

## Overview

Gas on Receive prevents users from getting "stuck" with assets they can't use by automatically providing a small amount of native gas tokens on the destination chain. 

The client library provides the `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` function that handles all the complexity for you, or you can implement custom logic if you need specific behavior.

## Prerequisites

- Skip Go Client Library v1.5.0 or higher
- Understanding of the basic `route` and `executeRoute` functions
- Access to user wallet signers for multiple chains

### Supported Chains
- **Destination**: Cosmos chains and EVM L2s (Solana not supported)
- **Source**: Most chains except Ethereum mainnet and Sepolia testnet

## Quick Start: Using getRouteWithGasOnReceive

The simplest way to implement Gas on Receive is using the built-in `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` function:

```typescript
import { 
  route, 
  getRouteWithGasOnReceive, 
  executeMultipleRoutes,
  executeRoute,
  type RouteResponse,
  type UserAddress
} from "@skip-go/client";

async function swapWithGasOnReceive() {
  try {
    // Step 1: Get your initial route
    const originalRoute = await route({
    amountIn: "1000000", // 1 OSMO
    sourceAssetChainId: "osmosis-1",
    sourceAssetDenom: "uosmo",
    destAssetChainId: "42161", // Arbitrum
    destAssetDenom: "0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1", // WETH
    smartRelay: true
  });

  // Step 2: Automatically split into main and gas routes
  const { mainRoute, gasRoute } = await getRouteWithGasOnReceive({
    routeResponse: originalRoute,
    routeRequest: {
      amountIn: "1000000",
      sourceAssetChainId: "osmosis-1",
      sourceAssetDenom: "uosmo",
      destAssetChainId: "42161",
      destAssetDenom: "0x82aF49447D8a07e3bd95BD0d56f35241523fBab1",
      smartRelay: true
    }
  });

  // Step 3: Get user addresses for required chains
  const userAddresses = [
    { chainId: "osmosis-1", address: "osmo1..." },
    { chainId: "42161", address: "0x..." }
  ];

  // Step 4: Execute routes
  if (gasRoute) {
    // Execute both routes together
    await executeMultipleRoutes({
      route: { mainRoute, feeRoute: gasRoute },
      userAddresses: {
        mainRoute: userAddresses,
        feeRoute: userAddresses // Same addresses for both routes
      },
      slippageTolerancePercent: {
        mainRoute: "1",
        feeRoute: "10" // Higher tolerance for gas route
      },
      getCosmosSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourCosmosWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      },
      getEVMSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourEvmWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      },
      onRouteStatusUpdated: (status) => {
        console.log("Route status:", status);
        
        // Check if gas route failed
        const gasRouteFailed = status.relatedRoutes?.find(
          r => r.routeKey === "feeRoute" && r.status === "failed"
        );
        
        if (gasRouteFailed) {
          console.warn("Gas route failed, but main swap continues");
        }
      }
    });
  } else {
    // No gas route needed, execute original route
    await executeRoute({
      route: originalRoute,
      userAddresses,
      slippageTolerancePercent: "1",
      getCosmosSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourCosmosWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      },
      getEVMSigningClient: async (chainId) => {
        return yourEvmWallet.getSigningClient(chainId);
      }
    });
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Failed to execute swap:", error);
    // Handle error appropriately
  }
}
```

### How getRouteWithGasOnReceive Works

The function automatically:
1. Checks if the destination chain is supported (excludes Solana chains)
2. Checks source chain support (excludes Ethereum mainnet and Sepolia testnet)
3. Verifies the destination asset isn't already a fee asset
4. Calculates appropriate gas amounts:
   - **Cosmos chains**: $0.10 USD worth of native tokens
   - **EVM L2 chains**: $2.00 USD worth of native tokens
5. Creates a gas route to obtain native tokens
6. Adjusts the main route amount accordingly
7. Returns both routes, or the original route as mainRoute if gas route creation fails

**Note**: If gas route creation fails for any reason, the function returns the original route as `mainRoute` with `gasRoute` as undefined, allowing your swap to proceed without gas-on-receive.

## Custom Implementation Guide

If you need to customize the Gas on Receive behavior beyond what `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` provides:

### Step 1: Check Destination Gas Balance

Before initiating a swap, check if the user has sufficient gas on the destination chain:

```typescript
import { balances } from "@skip-go/client";

async function checkDestinationGasBalance(
  destinationChainId: string,
  userAddress: string,
  requiredGasAmount?: string
) {
  // Fetch user's balance on destination chain
  const userBalances = await balances({
    chains: {
      [destinationChainId]: { address: userAddress }
    }
  });

  const chainBalances = userBalances.chains?.[destinationChainId]?.denoms;
  
  // For EVM chains, check native token (address 0x0000...)
  const nativeTokenDenom = getNativeTokenDenom(destinationChainId);
  const nativeBalance = chainBalances?.[nativeTokenDenom];

  // Simple check: does user have any native token?
  if (!nativeBalance?.amount || nativeBalance.amount === "0") {
    return false;
  }

  // Optional: Check against a minimum threshold
  if (requiredGasAmount) {
    return Number(nativeBalance.amount) >= Number(requiredGasAmount);
  }

  return true;
}

function getNativeTokenDenom(chainId: string): string {
  // For EVM chains
  if (isEvmChain(chainId)) {
    return "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000";
  }
  
  // For Cosmos chains, you'll need to fetch the fee assets
  // This varies by chain (e.g., "uosmo" for Osmosis, "uatom" for Cosmos Hub)
  return getCosmosNativeDenom(chainId);
}
```

### Step 2: Calculate Gas Amount Needed

```typescript
const GAS_AMOUNTS_USD = {
  cosmos: 0.10,    // $0.10 for Cosmos chains
  evm_l2: 2.00,    // $2.00 for EVM L2 chains
  evm_mainnet: 0   // Disabled for Ethereum mainnet
};

async function calculateGasAmount(
  sourceAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string },
  destinationChainId: string,
  sourceAssetPriceUsd: number
): Promise<string> {
  const chainType = await getChainType(destinationChainId);
  
  // Determine USD amount based on chain type
  let usdAmount = 0;
  if (chainType === 'cosmos') {
    usdAmount = GAS_AMOUNTS_USD.cosmos;
  } else if (chainType === 'evm' && destinationChainId !== "1") {
    usdAmount = GAS_AMOUNTS_USD.evm_l2;
  }
  
  if (usdAmount === 0) {
    throw new Error("Gas on Receive not supported for this chain");
  }
  
  // Convert USD amount to source asset amount
  const sourceAmount = usdAmount / sourceAssetPriceUsd;
  
  // Convert to crypto amount (considering decimals)
  const sourceAssetDecimals = await getAssetDecimals(sourceAsset);
  return convertToCryptoAmount(sourceAmount, sourceAssetDecimals);
}
```

### Step 3: Create Routes with Custom Logic

```typescript
import { route } from "@skip-go/client";

async function createRoutesManually(
  amountIn: string,
  sourceAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string },
  destAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string },
  gasAmount: string,
  enableGasOnReceive: boolean
) {
  // Calculate adjusted amounts
  const gasRouteAmount = enableGasOnReceive ? gasAmount : "0";
  const mainRouteAmount = (Number(amountIn) - Number(gasRouteAmount)).toString();
  
  // Create main route with reduced amount
  const mainRoute = await route({
    amountIn: mainRouteAmount,
    sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
    sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
    destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
    destAssetDenom: destAsset.denom,
    smartRelay: true
  });
  
  // Create gas route only if enabled
  let gasRoute = null;
  if (enableGasOnReceive) {
    const nativeTokenDenom = getNativeTokenDenom(destAsset.chainId);
    
    gasRoute = await route({
      amountIn: gasRouteAmount,
      sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
      sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
      destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
      destAssetDenom: nativeTokenDenom,
      smartRelay: true
    });
  }
  
  return { mainRoute, gasRoute };
}
```

### Step 4: Execute Routes

```typescript
import { executeMultipleRoutes, type RouteResponse, type UserAddress } from "@skip-go/client";

async function executeSwapWithGasOnReceive(
  mainRoute: RouteResponse,
  gasRoute: RouteResponse | null,
  userAddresses: UserAddress[],
  signers: {
    getCosmosSigningClient: (chainId: string) => Promise<any>;
    getEVMSigningClient: (chainId: string) => Promise<any>;
  }
) {
  // Build routes object with consistent naming
  const routes = gasRoute 
    ? { mainRoute, feeRoute: gasRoute }
    : { mainRoute };
  
  // Build user addresses object
  const addresses = gasRoute
    ? { mainRoute: userAddresses, feeRoute: userAddresses }
    : { mainRoute: userAddresses };
  
  // Build slippage settings
  const slippage = gasRoute
    ? { mainRoute: "1", feeRoute: "10" } // Higher tolerance for gas route
    : { mainRoute: "1" };
  
  // Execute both routes
  await executeMultipleRoutes({
    route: routes,
    userAddresses: addresses,
    slippageTolerancePercent: slippage,
    getCosmosSigningClient: signers.getCosmosSigningClient,
    getEVMSigningClient: signers.getEVMSigningClient,
    onRouteStatusUpdated: (status) => {
      // Handle route status updates
      console.log("Route status:", status);
      
      // Check if gas route failed
      const gasRouteFailed = status.relatedRoutes?.find(
        r => r.routeKey === "feeRoute" && r.status === "failed"
      );
      
      if (gasRouteFailed) {
        console.warn("Gas route failed, but main swap continues");
      }
    }
  });
}
```

## Complete Implementation Example

Here's a full example combining all the concepts:

```typescript
import { 
  route, 
  executeMultipleRoutes, 
  balances,
  assets,
  getRouteWithGasOnReceive
} from "@skip-go/client";

class GasOnReceiveManager {
  private readonly GAS_AMOUNTS_USD = {
    cosmos: 0.10,
    evm_l2: 2.00
  };

  async shouldEnableGasOnReceive(
    destinationChainId: string,
    destinationAddress: string,
    destinationAssetDenom: string
  ): Promise<boolean> {
    // Check if chain is supported
    if (!this.isChainSupported(destinationChainId)) {
      return false;
    }
    
    // Don't enable if destination asset is already a gas token
    if (await this.isGasToken(destinationChainId, destinationAssetDenom)) {
      return false;
    }
    
    // Check user's gas balance
    const hasGas = await this.checkGasBalance(destinationChainId, destinationAddress);
    return !hasGas;
  }
  
  private isChainSupported(chainId: string): boolean {
    // Solana chains not supported for destination
    const unsupportedDestChains = ["solana", "solana-devnet"];
    // Ethereum mainnet and Sepolia not supported as source
    const unsupportedSourceChains = ["1", "11155111"];
    // For this example, checking destination support
    return !unsupportedDestChains.includes(chainId);
  }
  
  private async isGasToken(chainId: string, denom: string): boolean {
    const chainAssets = await assets({ chainId });
    const gasTokens = chainAssets.chain?.feeAssets || [];
    return gasTokens.some(token => token.denom === denom);
  }
  
  private async checkGasBalance(
    chainId: string, 
    address: string
  ): Promise<boolean> {
    const balanceResponse = await balances({
      chains: { [chainId]: { address } }
    });
    
    const nativeDenom = await this.getNativeDenom(chainId);
    const balance = balanceResponse?.chains?.[chainId]?.denoms?.[nativeDenom];
    
    // Check if user has any balance
    return balance?.amount && balance.amount !== "0";
  }
  
  async executeSwapWithGasOnReceive(
    params: {
      amountIn: string;
      sourceAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string };
      destAsset: { chainId: string; denom: string };
      userAddresses: Array<{ chainId: string; address: string }>;
      enableGasOnReceive: boolean;
      signers: any;
    }
  ) {
    const { 
      amountIn, 
      sourceAsset, 
      destAsset, 
      userAddresses, 
      enableGasOnReceive,
      signers 
    } = params;
    
    // Get initial route
    const originalRoute = await route({
      amountIn,
      sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
      sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
      destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
      destAssetDenom: destAsset.denom
    });
    
    if (enableGasOnReceive) {
      // Use automatic splitting
      const { mainRoute, gasRoute } = await getRouteWithGasOnReceive({
        routeResponse: originalRoute,
        routeRequest: {
          amountIn,
          sourceAssetChainId: sourceAsset.chainId,
          sourceAssetDenom: sourceAsset.denom,
          destAssetChainId: destAsset.chainId,
          destAssetDenom: destAsset.denom
        }
      });
      
      if (gasRoute) {
        // Execute both routes
        await executeMultipleRoutes({
          route: { mainRoute, feeRoute: gasRoute },
          userAddresses: { 
            mainRoute: userAddresses,
            feeRoute: userAddresses 
          },
          slippageTolerancePercent: {
            mainRoute: "1",
            feeRoute: "10"  // Higher tolerance for gas route
          },
          ...signers,
          onRouteStatusUpdated: this.handleRouteStatus
        });
      } else {
        // Execute just the main route
        await executeRoute({
          route: mainRoute,
          userAddresses,
          slippageTolerancePercent: "1",
          ...signers
        });
      }
    } else {
      // Execute original route without gas
      await executeRoute({
        route: originalRoute,
        userAddresses,
        slippageTolerancePercent: "1",
        ...signers
      });
    }
  }
  
  private handleRouteStatus(status: RouteStatus) {
    if (status.status === "completed") {
      console.log("Swap completed successfully");
    }
    
    // Check gas route status
    const gasRoute = status.relatedRoutes?.find(r => r.routeKey === "feeRoute");
    if (gasRoute?.status === "failed") {
      console.warn("Gas provision failed, but main swap continues");
    } else if (gasRoute?.status === "completed") {
      console.log("Gas tokens received successfully");
    }
  }
}
```

## UI Considerations

When implementing Gas on Receive in your UI:

### Display Gas Information

```typescript
function GasOnReceiveToggle({ 
  enabled, 
  gasAmount, 
  gasAssetSymbol,
  onToggle 
}: GasOnReceiveProps) {
  return (
    <div className="gas-on-receive">
      <div className="gas-info">
        <GasIcon />
        <span>Enable gas top up - You'll get {gasAmount} in {gasAssetSymbol}</span>
        <Tooltip content="Receive native tokens for gas fees on destination chain" />
      </div>
      <Switch checked={enabled} onChange={onToggle} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Show Status During Execution

```typescript
function GasStatus({ status, amount, symbol }: GasStatusProps) {
  switch (status) {
    case 'pending':
      return <span>Receiving {amount} in {symbol}...</span>;
    case 'completed':
      return <span>✓ Received {amount} in {symbol} as gas top-up</span>;
    case 'failed':
      return <span>⚠ Failed to receive gas tokens</span>;
    default:
      return null;
  }
}
```

## Error Handling

Handle various failure scenarios gracefully:

```typescript
async function handleGasRouteErrors(error: Error, mainRouteStatus: string) {
  // Gas route failures don't affect main swap
  if (mainRouteStatus === 'completed') {
    console.log("Main swap succeeded despite gas route failure");
    // Show warning to user about missing gas
    showWarning("Swap completed but gas tokens were not received");
  }
  
  // Log for debugging
  console.error("Gas route error:", error);
  
  // Track in analytics
  trackEvent("gas_route_failed", {
    error: error.message,
    mainRouteStatus
  });
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use getRouteWithGasOnReceive**: The automatic function handles edge cases and optimizations
2. **Auto-detection**: Check gas balances and suggest Gas on Receive when needed
3. **User Control**: Always allow users to toggle the feature on/off
4. **Clear Communication**: Show exact amounts and costs transparently
5. **Graceful Degradation**: Main swap should continue even if gas route fails
6. **Higher Slippage**: Use 10% slippage for gas routes (vs 1% for main routes)
7. **Chain Support**: Disable for Ethereum mainnet and Solana
8. **Amount Limits**: Use recommended amounts ($0.10 for Cosmos, $2.00 for EVM L2s)

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom Gas Amounts

```typescript
// Override default gas amounts
const customGasAmounts = {
  "osmosis-1": "100000", // 0.1 OSMO
  "42161": "0.001",      // 0.001 ETH on Arbitrum
  "137": "2"             // 2 MATIC on Polygon
};

async function getCustomGasAmount(chainId: string): Promise<string> {
  return customGasAmounts[chainId] || getDefaultGasAmount(chainId);
}
```

### Dynamic Pricing

```typescript
// Adjust gas amount based on current gas prices
async function calculateDynamicGasAmount(chainId: string) {
  const gasPrice = await getGasPrice(chainId);
  const estimatedTxCount = 5; // Assume user needs gas for 5 transactions
  const gasPerTx = 21000; // Basic transfer gas limit
  
  const totalGasNeeded = gasPrice * gasPerTx * estimatedTxCount;
  return totalGasNeeded.toString();
}
```

## Comparison with Widget Implementation

| Feature | Widget (Automatic) | Client Library (Manual) |
|---------|-------------------|------------------------|
| Gas balance detection | Automatic | Manual or use `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` |
| Route creation | Automatic | Use `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` or manual |
| Amount calculation | Built-in defaults | Built-in with `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` |
| UI components | Provided | Build your own |
| Error handling | Automatic | Manual implementation |
| Status tracking | Built-in | Via callbacks |

## Summary

The Skip Go Client Library provides flexible options for implementing Gas on Receive:

1. **Quick implementation** with `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` for automatic route splitting
2. **Full control** with manual balance checking and route creation
3. **Status tracking** via callbacks in `executeMultipleRoutes`
4. **Graceful error handling** where gas route failures don't affect main swaps

Choose the approach that best fits your application's needs. For most use cases, `getRouteWithGasOnReceive` provides the ideal balance of simplicity and functionality.
