docs/client/migration-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Migration Guide'
---

<Warning>
  Both the Skip Router SDK ([`@skip-router/core`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-router/core)) and Skip Go Core ([`@skip-go/core`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-go/core))
  are deprecated. Please migrate to Skip Go Client ([`@skip-go/client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-go/client)), our actively maintained client package.
</Warning>

<Update label="@skip-go/client v1.0.0">
## Breaking changes

This section details the migration from previous versions to the latest [`@skip-go/client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-go/client).

### No More SkipClient Class

The `SkipClient` class has been removed. Instead, import and use individual functions directly:

```TypeScript Example import
import {
  assets,
  assetsBetweenChains,
  assetsFromSource,
  recommendAssets,
  bridges,
  balances,
  chains,
  venues,
  ibcOriginAssets,
  route,
  messages,
  messagesDirect,
  submitTransaction,
  trackTransaction,
  transactionStatus,
  executeRoute,
  setClientOptions,
  setApiOptions,
} from '@skip-go/client';
```

### Initialization Changes

**If not using `executeRoute`:**

- Call `setApiOptions({ apiUrl, apiKey })` once at initialization.
- Alternatively, pass `apiUrl` and `apiKey` as arguments to each individual API function call.

**If using `executeRoute`:**

- Call `setClientOptions()` with the same options object previously passed to the `SkipClient` constructor.
- **Exception:** `getCosmosSigner`, `getEVMSigner`, and `getSVMSigner` have been removed from `setClientOptions`. These signer functions are now passed directly to `executeRoute` when needed.
- **Renamed:** `getEVMSigner` is now `getEvmSigner`, and `getSVMSigner` is now `getSvmSigner`.

```Diff Example migration
- const client = new SkipClient(options);
+ setClientOptions(options); // Only if using executeRoute

- client.chains();
+ chains(); // Assuming apiUrl/apiKey were set via setApiOptions or passed in
```

### Build Format Change

The library build format has changed from CommonJS (CJS) to `ES Modules (ESM)`.

This change enables better tree-shaking, leading to significantly smaller bundle sizes for applications that don't use all the library's features.

<Info>
If you're **not** using `executeRoute`, your final bundle size should decrease dramatically (e.g., from ~5MB to potentially ~7KB for a single API function usage), assuming tree-shaking is enabled in your bundler.
</Info>

### Axios Removed

`axios` is no longer a dependency. All API calls now utilize the standard `window.fetch` API internally.

### CamelCase Update

All property names in API responses and configuration objects now strictly adhere to `camelCase`.

**Examples:**

| Before          | After           |
| --------------- | --------------- |
| `chainID`       | `chainId`       |
| `apiURL`        | `apiUrl`        |
| `logoURI`       | `logoUri`       |
| `asset.isCW20`  | `asset.isCw20`  |

### Named parameter enforcement for API functions

Some methods now require named parameters or an options object instead of positional arguments:

#### recommendAssets

Old:
```ts
await client.recommendAssets(request);
// OR
await client.recommendAssets([request1, request2]);
```
New:
```ts
await recommendAssets({ requests: [request1, request2] });
```
Wrap the array in a `{ requests: [...] }` object.

#### ibcOriginAssets

Old:
```ts
await client.ibcOriginAssets(assets);
```
New:
```ts
await ibcOriginAssets({ assets: [asset1, asset2] });
```
Wrap the assets array in a `{ assets: [...] }` object.

#### `getFeeInfoForChain`

Parameters for `getFeeInfoForChain` should now be passed as an object.

Old:
```ts
await client.getFeeInfoForChain(chainID);
```
New:
```ts
import { getFeeInfoForChain } from '@skip-go/client'; // Assuming setApiOptions was called

await getFeeInfoForChain({ chainId: chainID });
// Or, if not using setApiOptions globally for apiUrl/apiKey:
// await getFeeInfoForChain({ chainId: chainID, apiUrl: YOUR_API_URL, apiKey: YOUR_API_KEY });
```

#### `getRecommendedGasPrice`

Parameters for `getRecommendedGasPrice` should now be passed as an object.

Old:
```ts
await client.getRecommendedGasPrice(chainID);
```
New:
```ts
import { getRecommendedGasPrice } from '@skip-go/client'; // Assuming setApiOptions was called

await getRecommendedGasPrice({ chainId: chainID });
// Or, if not using setApiOptions globally for apiUrl/apiKey:
// await getRecommendedGasPrice({ chainId: chainID, apiUrl: YOUR_API_URL, apiKey: YOUR_API_KEY });
```

</Update>

<Update label="@skip-router/core v4.0.0">

### Breaking changes

- Removed `clientID` param in `SkipClient`
- Added `apiKey` param in `SkipClient`
- Added `requiredChainAddresses` in `SkipClient.route` response
- Added `smartSwapOptions` in `SkipClient.route`request

```JavaScript Type signature
smartSwapOptions: {
	splitRoutes: boolean
}
```
</Update>

<Update label="@skip-router/core v3.0.0">
## Breaking changes

- Changed parameter type of `userAddresses` from a map of chainIDs to addresses to an array of `UserAddress` types

```TypeScript Type signature
export interface UserAddress {
  chainID: string;
  address: string;
}
```
</Update>

<Update label="@skip-router/core v2.0.0">
### Breaking changes

- Removed `SkipClient.executeMultiChainMessage` method
- Renamed `SkipClient.getGasAmountForMessage` method to `SkipClient.getCosmosGasAmountForMessage`
- Renamed `SkipClient.getFeeForMessage` to `SkipClient.getCosmosFeeForMe`
- Renamed `MultiChainMsg` type to `CosmosMsg`
- Renamed and changed parameters of `SkipClient.executeMultiChainMsgs` to `SkipClient.executeTxs`

```Diff Diff
const client = new SkipClient({
  apiURL: SKIP_API_URL,
// ... rest of your configs
});
- client.executeMultiChainMsgs({
+ client.executeTxs({
	...options
-	msgs: types.Msg[]
+	txs: types.Tx[]
})
```

- Param of `SkipClient.executeCosmosMessage` changed from `message:MultiChainMsg` to `messages: CosmosMsg[]`

```Diff Diff
const client = new SkipClient({
  apiURL: SKIP_API_URL,
// ... rest of your configs
});
client.executeCosmosMessage({
	...options
-	message: MultiChainMsg
+	messages: CosmosMsg[]
})
```
</Update>

Commit message:

Update migration guide to reflect removal of internal functions in v1.0.0

docs/client/migration-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Migration Guide'
---

<Warning>
  Both the Skip Router SDK ([`@skip-router/core`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-router/core)) and Skip Go Core ([`@skip-go/core`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-go/core))
  are deprecated. Please migrate to Skip Go Client ([`@skip-go/client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-go/client)), our actively maintained client package.
</Warning>

<Update label="@skip-go/client v1.0.0">
## Breaking changes

This section details the migration from previous versions to the latest [`@skip-go/client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@skip-go/client).

### No More SkipClient Class

The `SkipClient` class has been removed. Instead, import and use individual functions directly:

```TypeScript Example import
import {
  assets,
  assetsBetweenChains,
  assetsFromSource,
  recommendAssets,
  bridges,
  balances,
  chains,
  venues,
  ibcOriginAssets,
  route,
  messages,
  messagesDirect,
  submitTransaction,
  trackTransaction,
  transactionStatus,
  executeRoute,
  setClientOptions,
  setApiOptions,
} from '@skip-go/client';
```

### Initialization Changes

**If not using `executeRoute`:**

- Call `setApiOptions({ apiUrl, apiKey })` once at initialization.
- Alternatively, pass `apiUrl` and `apiKey` as arguments to each individual API function call.

**If using `executeRoute`:**

- Call `setClientOptions()` with the same options object previously passed to the `SkipClient` constructor.
- **Exception:** `getCosmosSigner`, `getEVMSigner`, and `getSVMSigner` have been removed from `setClientOptions`. These signer functions are now passed directly to `executeRoute` when needed.
- **Renamed:** `getEVMSigner` is now `getEvmSigner`, and `getSVMSigner` is now `getSvmSigner`.

```Diff Example migration
- const client = new SkipClient(options);
+ setClientOptions(options); // Only if using executeRoute

- client.chains();
+ chains(); // Assuming apiUrl/apiKey were set via setApiOptions or passed in
```

### Build Format Change

The library build format has changed from CommonJS (CJS) to `ES Modules (ESM)`.

This change enables better tree-shaking, leading to significantly smaller bundle sizes for applications that don't use all the library's features.

<Info>
If you're **not** using `executeRoute`, your final bundle size should decrease dramatically (e.g., from ~5MB to potentially ~7KB for a single API function usage), assuming tree-shaking is enabled in your bundler.
</Info>

### Axios Removed

`axios` is no longer a dependency. All API calls now utilize the standard `window.fetch` API internally.

### CamelCase Update

All property names in API responses and configuration objects now strictly adhere to `camelCase`.

**Examples:**

| Before          | After           |
| --------------- | --------------- |
| `chainID`       | `chainId`       |
| `apiURL`        | `apiUrl`        |
| `logoURI`       | `logoUri`       |
| `asset.isCW20`  | `asset.isCw20`  |

### Named parameter enforcement for API functions

Some methods now require named parameters or an options object instead of positional arguments:

#### recommendAssets

Old:
```ts
await client.recommendAssets(request);
// OR
await client.recommendAssets([request1, request2]);
```
New:
```ts
await recommendAssets({ requests: [request1, request2] });
```
Wrap the array in a `{ requests: [...] }` object.

#### ibcOriginAssets

Old:
```ts
await client.ibcOriginAssets(assets);
```
New:
```ts
await ibcOriginAssets({ assets: [asset1, asset2] });
```
Wrap the assets array in a `{ assets: [...] }` object.

#### `getFeeInfoForChain`

Parameters for `getFeeInfoForChain` should now be passed as an object.

Old:
```ts
await client.getFeeInfoForChain(chainID);
```
New:
```ts
import { getFeeInfoForChain } from '@skip-go/client'; // Assuming setApiOptions was called

await getFeeInfoForChain({ chainId: chainID });
// Or, if not using setApiOptions globally for apiUrl/apiKey:
// await getFeeInfoForChain({ chainId: chainID, apiUrl: YOUR_API_URL, apiKey: YOUR_API_KEY });
```

#### `getRecommendedGasPrice`

Parameters for `getRecommendedGasPrice` should now be passed as an object.

Old:
```ts
await client.getRecommendedGasPrice(chainID);
```
New:
```ts
import { getRecommendedGasPrice } from '@skip-go/client'; // Assuming setApiOptions was called

await getRecommendedGasPrice({ chainId: chainID });
// Or, if not using setApiOptions globally for apiUrl/apiKey:
// await getRecommendedGasPrice({ chainId: chainID, apiUrl: YOUR_API_URL, apiKey: YOUR_API_KEY });
```

### Removed Internal Functions

The following functions that were previously exported are no longer available in v1.0.0. These were internal functions that were not intended for direct use by integrators, as they are used internally by `executeRoute`:

- `executeTxs`
- `executeEvmMsg` (merged with `executeEvmTransaction`)
- `executeCosmosMessage` (merged with `executeCosmosTransaction`)
- `executeEVMTransaction`
- `executeSVMTransaction`
- `signCosmosMessageDirect`
- `signCosmosMessageAmino`
- `getRpcEndpointForChain`
- `getRestEndpointForChain`
- `validateGasBalances`
- `validateCosmosGasBalance`
- `validateEvmGasBalance`
- `validateEvmTokenApproval`
- `validateSvmGasBalance`
- `validateUserAddresses`
- `getMainnetAndTestnetChains`
- `getMainnetAndTestnetAssets`
- `getAccountNumberAndSequence`

If your application was using any of these functions directly, consider using `executeRoute` instead, which handles all transaction execution internally. If you have a specific use case that requires access to any of these functions, please open a ticket on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/skip).

</Update>

<Update label="@skip-router/core v4.0.0">

### Breaking changes

- Removed `clientID` param in `SkipClient`
- Added `apiKey` param in `SkipClient`
- Added `requiredChainAddresses` in `SkipClient.route` response
- Added `smartSwapOptions` in `SkipClient.route`request

```JavaScript Type signature
smartSwapOptions: {
	splitRoutes: boolean
}
```
</Update>

<Update label="@skip-router/core v3.0.0">
## Breaking changes

- Changed parameter type of `userAddresses` from a map of chainIDs to addresses to an array of `UserAddress` types

```TypeScript Type signature
export interface UserAddress {
  chainID: string;
  address: string;
}
```
</Update>

<Update label="@skip-router/core v2.0.0">
### Breaking changes

- Removed `SkipClient.executeMultiChainMessage` method
- Renamed `SkipClient.getGasAmountForMessage` method to `SkipClient.getCosmosGasAmountForMessage`
- Renamed `SkipClient.getFeeForMessage` to `SkipClient.getCosmosFeeForMe`
- Renamed `MultiChainMsg` type to `CosmosMsg`
- Renamed and changed parameters of `SkipClient.executeMultiChainMsgs` to `SkipClient.executeTxs`

```Diff Diff
const client = new SkipClient({
  apiURL: SKIP_API_URL,
// ... rest of your configs
});
- client.executeMultiChainMsgs({
+ client.executeTxs({
	...options
-	msgs: types.Msg[]
+	txs: types.Tx[]
})
```

- Param of `SkipClient.executeCosmosMessage` changed from `message:MultiChainMsg` to `messages: CosmosMsg[]`

```Diff Diff
const client = new SkipClient({
  apiURL: SKIP_API_URL,
// ... rest of your configs
});
client.executeCosmosMessage({
	...options
-	message: MultiChainMsg
+	messages: CosmosMsg[]
})
```
</Update>
